So let's go ahead,
and practice using VPC endpoints.
First what I wanna show you is that,
and I'm going to stop this default VPCs instance,
'cause we don't really need it.
So I'm going to terminate that instance, and yes, be done.
So if we go into our bastion host,
which is also a public instance,
we're going to connect to it.
And then from this EC2 instance,
I'm going to connect into my private EC2 instance,
so again, this is the IP of my private EC2 instance,
that we have here, so what we can do,
is do the SSH command from within,
so EC2 user at the IP, minus i demoKeyPair.pm.
Okay, let's clear this.
So now we want to access the S3, okay?
So to access S3, what we need to do,
is to create a role for this instance.
Okay, so we're going to go under security,
there's no IM role attached right now.
So what I have to do is to right click,
and then I will go into security,
and then modify the IM role.
We need to create a new role,
and I will just create a quick role for EC2 instances,
so, let's create a role.
And this is for EC2 instances, next, permissions.
And then for the policy that we have,
we'll use the Amazon S3 read only access, okay?
Tags, review, and then I'll call it
DemoRoleEC2-S3ReadOnly, okay.
Create role, and it has been created.
So now back in it, I can refresh this page,
and look at this demo role EC2 S3 read only, and save it.
So invalid instance, I am providing, so here we go,
it was just a little lag that we needed to wait for.
Okay, so my private instance now as an IM role
attached to it, so if I go back into here,
and do AWS S3 LS.
As we can see, we get the answer of our four buckets,
of our accounts.
So our instance is connected to the internet,
and again, we can do curl google.com.
And again, we get an answer, okay?
So this is working, but now what I'm going to do,
is under the route table of my private subnets,
I'm going to edit the routes,
and this one that was connecting to the internet
through the NAT gateway, I'm going to remove it.
So effectively what I'm going to do,
what I'm doing right now,
is that I'm preventing this instance right here,
to access the internet.
So if we do S3 LS, this is not working,
and if we do curl google.com, this is not working either,
so we've removed internet access from this EC2 instance,
because we want to connect to Amazon S3 privately,
through a VPC endpoint.
So let's go ahead and create a VPC endpoint,
so I will click on endpoints, not endpoint services,
and then click on create endpoint.
And here I can choose the type of endpoint I want.
So I want an end point for an AWS service,
and then we have a list of all the services,
and the type of VPC endpoint we have.
So we have either an interface type of endpoint,
or if I type, for example, dynamodb in here,
it is a gateway type of endpoint.
So if we take a interface type of endpoint,
I'll just take the first one I see.
What I have to do is select a VPC
in which this endpoint will be deployed.
Then we need to make sure that DNS name is enabled,
and for this we need to modify some VPC settings
regarding DNS, but we have done that from before.
And then we specify in which AZ will this endpoint
be deployed, this interface endpoint be deployed.
So you can say in these two subnets,
because we're not with the third subnet,
because we didn't create a subnet for this, for the last AZ.
But anyway, you choose the end points you want,
you choose the associated subnet ID with it,
for example, it is going to be in private subnet A,
and then private subnet B, of IPv4.
And then you select a security group
to attach to this endpoint,
and this will define the security of how this endpoint
is accessed from your other type of instances, okay?
So the other option, instead of creating
an interface endpoint, is to create a gateway endpoint.
And for this we'll use Amazon S3.
So as we can see, we have different kinds of endpoints,
we have a gateway and interface,
but to go through this example,
the most common is going to be a gateway endpoint
into Amazon S3.
In which case we have to choose a VPC,
the demo VPC, we have to choose then to update route table.
And so therefore we're going to update
the private route table, so that any request
made within my private subnet in this route table,
is going to be routed to this gateway endpoint.
So we'll use full access for this gateway endpoint,
and then click on create endpoint.
So the endpoint has been created,
and if you look at route tables,
we can see that it is associated
with my private route table.
So we can verify that by going into the route tables,
in my private route table,
look at the routes and then edit them.
As we can see we have this route right here
that get added directly, and that means that some traffic
is going to go directly into my VPC endpoint.
So we're good to go, and we cannot delete it,
because it's actually linked to the endpoint itself.
And so now this is done,
let's have a look at our bastion instance,
and see if things work.
So if I do curl and right now this is not working,
I got disconnected, so let's go back into it,
by going through the bastion host.
then we SSH again, so we use the demo key pair,
and then we add in the IP of our private instance,
which is right here.
Okay, now if you do curl google.com,
as we can see, it still does not work,
because we still have a route out to the internet.
And if you do AWS S3 LS, it doesn't work either.
And you may say, but we have a gateway endpoint,
so it should work.
Yes, actually this is because of a CLI problem.
So what you have to do is that by default,
the region of the CLI will be US East one,
and so we need to edit it,
and for this, we're gonna do AWS S3 LS,
and then region is EU central one,
or whatever region you are in when you do this hands on.
Press center, and as you can see now,
this traffic is redirected to the VPC endpoint of my region,
and therefore I have the list of all the buckets
on Amazon S3, even though my instance
does not have internet access.
So this is the whole power of VPC endpoints,
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.